URL: https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-462/first-work-holiday-462#About
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
 Menu
 Menu
 Home Affairs Portfolio
Home
Entering and leaving Australia
Visas
Australian citizenship
Change in your situation
What we do
Settling in Australia
Help and support
News and media
Australian Government - Department of Home Affairs Immigration and citizenship
Search
 
ImmiAccountVisa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO)My Tourist Refund Scheme (TRS)
HomeVisasGetting a visaList of all visasWork and Holiday visa (subclass 462)
Work and Holiday visa (subclass 462)
First Work and Holiday visa
This visa lets people 18 to 30 years old (inclusive) have an extended holiday in Australia and work here to help fund their trip.


Overview
About this visa
Eligibility
Step by step
When you have this visa
If we grant you another visa (such as an eVisitor (subclass 651) visa) while you are holding your Working Holiday Maker (WHM) visa (subclass 417 or subclass 462), your WHM visa will cease on the date the other visa is granted. This may prevent you from working in Australia and applying for another WHM visa. See When you have this visa.

You must declare your current location correctly on your visa application form. We may not be able to grant your visa if your location is incorrect.


​

With this visa you can
How long you can stay
Stay longer
Include family
Cost
Apply from
Processing times
Annual visa limit
Your obligations
Health insurance
Travel
Visa record
With this visa you can
do short-term work in Australia to help pay for your holiday
study for up to 4 months
travel to and from Australia as many times as you want
do 3 months of specified subclass 462 work to become eligible for a second Work and Holiday visa
Work
You can do any kind of work on this visa.

Usually, you can only work for the same employer for 6 months.

If the main purpose of your stay is to work, consider a work visa. Explore visa options.

Study
You can study for up to 4 months (17 weeks).

If the main purpose of your stay is to study, consider a Student visa. 

How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You must enter Australia within 12 months of the date we grant it. We will not extend or defer this timeframe. 

The visa’s period of stay starts on the date you enter Australia. Once you have entered you can:

stay in Australia for up to 12 months
leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you like in those 12 months
Note:

You do not need to apply for another visa to enter Australia, such as an eVisitor (subclass 651) visa, once you have been granted your Work and Holiday Visa.
If you apply for and are granted another visa (such as subclass 651 visa) after the grant of your Work and Holiday visa, your Work and Holiday visa (and related work rights) will cease on the date that visa is granted.
If your first Work and Holiday visa ceased due to the grant of another visa, such as an eVisitor visa, and you entered Australia on that other visa, you will not be able to apply for another first Work and Holiday visa while you are in Australia. 
You have another visa
Your Work and Holiday visa starts on the date you enter or transit through Australia even if you hold any other temporary visa including:

a Special Purpose visa 
an Electronic Travel Authority
a Crew Travel Authority
a Maritime Crew visa
It is important that you only apply for a Work and Holiday visa once you are ready to enter Australia on that visa. Once we grant your Work and Holiday visa and you travel to Australia and are immigration cleared at the border, the 12-month visa period of stay will automatically start upon entry, regardless of the purpose of your visit.

Stay longer
Staying longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. 

Explore your visa options to stay longer in Australia.

You could apply for a second Work and Holiday visa if you are eligible.

Stay longer on a visitor visa
The total time we let you stay in Australia on your first Work and Holiday visa and then a visitor visa is 12 consecutive months.

We might grant you longer on a Visitor visa if there are exceptional circumstances.

For this visa, exceptional circumstances might be that a close family member in Australia has died or is seriously ill and you are required to stay in Australia to provide assistance or support.

Include family
You can't include family members in your application.

You can't be accompanied by dependent children while you are in Australia on this visa.

Cost
    AUD635.00

You might also have to pay for health checks, police certificates and biometrics.

Apply from
You must be outside Australia when you apply for this visa and when we decide your application.

Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.

Your application might take longer to process if:

you don't fill it in correctly
you don't include all the documents we need or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information
Annual visa limit
Every program year we grant a limited number of first Work and Holiday visas to applicants from each eligible country except the United States of America. The program year begins on 1 July and ends on 30 June.

Once this annual limit or 'cap' is reached, we will not grant any more visas. You should wait until the new program year commences on the following 1 July to submit an application.

To find out if applications are open, suspended or closed from your country of passport see Status of country caps.

Your obligations
You must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws.

See the conditions for this visa.

Tax
You must pay taxes when you work in Australia on this visa.

Superannuation
Australia has compulsory superannuation - a retirement savings scheme. Your employer must pay superannuation into your superannuation fund if you earn more than a certain amount.

You can access your superannuation when you leave Australia.

Health insurance
We strongly recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability.

See what we consider adequate health insurance.

Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors.

Reciprocal healthcare agreements
Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from the Department of Human Services about reciprocal healthcare agreements.

Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is in effect.

Time you spend outside Australia after your first entry does not extend the visa's 12-month period of stay in Australia.

Visa record
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.

pop-up content startspop-up content ends Clickbot
 Tell us what you think of this pageLast updated: 22 March 2024
Print this page  
HOME AFFAIRS PORTFOLIO
TRAVEL AND CROSSING THE BORDER
IMPORT, EXPORT AND BUYING ONLINE
NATIONAL SECURITY
​EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CYBER SECURITY
MULTICULTURAL AFFAIRS
Who we are
Our Ministers
Popular questions
Glossary
Forms
Online services
Compliments, complaints and suggestions
Australian Government 
 
The Department of Home Affairs acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, sea and community. We pay our respects to all Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, their cultures and to their elders past, present and emerging.
Conditions of useWeb privacy statementAccessibility of this websiteFreedom of informationInformation publication schemeCopyright and disclaimerPrivacy
Back to top 
Facebook page for Australian Department of Home Affairs LinkedIn page for Australian Department of Home Affairs

​​
​


